# Simple-Number-Generators
C code to generate numbers with linear feedback shift registers

These C functions are linear feedback shift registers, which produce non-sequential numbers across the full range of several integer word sizes (8, 11, 16, 23, 32, 52, and 64 bits).

Each new number is generated by a bit shifted into the data value as the "exclusive or" of two or more tap bits in the existing number. This generates, given enough iterations, all possible non-zero-bit patterns, providing differing numbers with wide distances between successive numbers.

The generator cycles back to 1, with a cycle length of (2 raised to the nth power)-1, where n is the word size. For example:  the cycle length is 255 iterations for an 8-bit register. This only works, however, when using the correct tap bits.

The unusual word sizes, 11, 23, and 52 bits can be used to generate numbers for the IEEE floating point exponents and mantissas:  11-bit exponent for IEEE double precision; 23- bit mantissa for IEEE single precision; 52-bit mantissa for IEEE double precision.

Example Usage

I wrote this code for firmware running in the Texas Instrument’s MSP430 micro- controller, to produce test data for 10 different data types:  

1)	signed 8-bit integers
2)	unsigned 8-bit integers
3)	signed 16-bit integers
4)	unsigned 16-bit integers
5)	signed 32-bit integers
6)	unsigned 32-bit integers
7)	signed 64-bit integers
8)	unsigned 64-bit integers
9)	IEEE 32-bit floating point single precision/binary32
10)	IEEE 64-bit floating point double precision/binary64

In my use of these generators, the numbers are transferred from a sensor simulator, in binary data packets, to a data recorder or a PC as test data.  The data recorder or PC accepts each number as one of the 10 data types. A header in the binary data packet, not shown in this code, indicates which of the 10 data types to expect.

References

"Algorithms," by Roger Sedgewick, 1988, Addison-Wesley Publishing Company, pages 514-516
 
"Joe Celko's Data Measurement and Standards in SQL," 2010, Morgan Kaufmann Publishers, pages 272-273

"Primitive Polynomials (Mod 2)," by E.J. Watson, Mathematics of Computation, American Mathematics Society, 1961


Michael Jablonski
September 2017
